.\" @(#)sxincl_mngr.3	- SYNTAX [unix] - 22 Septembre 1988
.TH SXINCL_MNGR 3 "SYNTAX\*R"
.SH NAME
sxincl_mngr,
sxpush_incl,
sxpop_incl
\- include manager for SYNTAX.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ta \w'\s-2VOID\s0  'u +\w'\s-2VOID\s0  'u
.PP
.B
\s-2VOID\s0 sxincl_mngr (what)
.B
	int	 what\|;
.PP
.B
\s-2BOOLEAN\s0 sxpush_incl (pathname)
.B
	char	*pathname\|;
.PP
.B
\s-2BOOLEAN\s0 sxpop_incl ()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B include manager
module provides the user with a set of functions which may help his
handling of the include mechanism.
These functions must be called by the user actions of the lexical level.
.LP
.I sxincl_mngr
is the first and last entry point of the module to be called for
initialization and finalization.
It has a single argument whose values must be
.IR \s-2OPEN\s0 ,
.IR \s-2INIT\s0 ,
.IR \s-2FINAL\s0
or
.IR \s-2CLOSE\s0.
.PP
.I sxpush_incl
must be call at the beginning of each include file.
It stores the current value of the structure sxsrcmngr (see
.BR sxsrc_mngr (3)
) and opens a new input (include) file whose name is
.I pathname
and returns 
.B TRUE
on success\|; otherwise, it returns
.B FALSE
if the include file
.I pathname
cannot be opened or if it is a recursive call.
.PP
.I sxpop_incl
must be call at the end of each include file.
It closes the file and restores the context of its caller.
Returns
.B TRUE
on success and
.B FALSE
otherwise (cannot close the include file or there is no caller).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sxunix(3),
sxscanner(3)
and the \fISYNTAX Reference Manual\fP.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" version-control: yes
.\" End:
