.\" @(#)tabc.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 2 Septembre 1987
.TH TABC 1 "SYNTAX\*R"
.SH NAME
tabc \- process syntactic grammars with semantics described by synthetized attributes written in C.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tabc
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-sc\fP ] [ \fB\-nsc\fP ]
[ \fB\-ls\fP ] [ \fB\-nls\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[ \fB\-so\fP ] [ \fB\-nso\fP ]
[ \fB\-df\fP ] [ \fB\-ndf\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[ \fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tabc
processes the syntactic part of a language, described for the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system with semantics described by synthetized attributes written in C.
.I tabc
checks that the grammar is proper and translates the attributes specification
into a semantic evaluator written in C.
.LP
Each file named
.I filename
contains the (syntactic and semantic) description of a given language.
A
.I filename
may be of the form
[\|\fIpath/\fP\|]\|\fIname\fP.\fBtabc\fP
where
.I name
is the name of the described language.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read.
.LP
The semantic evaluator is written on the standard output.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I tabc
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     tabc [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     tabc -v -sc -ls -rhs 10 -nso -df [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fP, \fB\-source\fP
Produce a file named
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP,
containing a line and production numbered source listing together with
possible error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nsc\fP, \fB\-nosource\fP
Suppress the source listing\|; implies
.IR \-nolist .
.TP
\fB\-ls\fP, \fB\-list\fP
Add to the listing file a
.B cross reference
table of the grammar symbols,
the
.B follow
matrix of terminal symbols and a table which gives for each production the
name of the abstract tree node and the names of its sons\|;
implies
.IR \-source .
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nls\fP, \fB\-nolist\fP
Suppress the cross reference table, the follow matrix and the printing of the
nodes hierarchy.
.TP
\fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-max_right_hand_side\fP \fInnn\fP
Issue a warning message each time the length of the right hand side of a
production exceeds
.I nnn
symbols. The default value of
.I nnn
is 10.
.TP
\fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-language_name\fP \fIname\fP
Force the
.I name
of the language to be processed.
The
.B \-ln
option is mandatory if no
.I filename
is given.
.TP
\fB\-df\fP, \fB\-default\fP
Produce in the source listing (if any) the attributes definition that
.I tabc
deduces by default.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-ndf\fP, \fB\-nodefault\fP
Remain silent on the attributes definition deduced by default.
.TP
\fB\-nso\fP, \fB\-nosem_out\f
Remain silent on the attribute grammar.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-so\fP, \fB\-sem_out\fP
Produce in the source listing (if any) some information about the attribute
grammar : what attributes apply on each non-terminal symbol, etc...
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP  'u
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bt\fP	internal grammar form (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP	listing (output)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bnf(1), semact(1), paradis(1), semat(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the grammar is not proper or when the specification of the abstract tree
is incorrect, an error message is issued and error diagnostics are gathered in
the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" version-control: yes
.\" End:
