.\" @(#)ysx.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 2 Septembre 1987
.TH YSX 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
ysx \- convert YACC sources to SYNTAX specifications.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ysx
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-sc\fP ] [ \fB\-nsc\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.4i
[ \fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ysx
converts a
.IR yacc (1)
input into a set of files to be used as input for the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system.
.I ysx
assumes that its input has already been fed into
.I yacc
without giving rise to fatal error messages, and does its best
to produce a
.IR yax (1)
specification, together with sources for
.IR prio (1)
and
.IR tdef (1),
if these are needed.
.LP
Each file named
.I filename
contains the description of a given language.
A
.I filename
may be of the form
[\|\fIpath/\fP\|]\|\fIname\fP.\fBy\fP
where
.I name
is the name of the described language.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I ysx
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     ysx [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     ysx -v -sc [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fP, \fB\-source\fP
Produce a file named
\fIname\fP\fB.ys.l\fP,
containing a line-numbered source listing together with
possible error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nsc\fP, \fB\-nosource\fP
Suppress the source listing.
.TP
\fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-language_name\fP \fIname\fP
Force the
.I name
of the language to be processed.
The
.B \-ln
option is mandatory if no
.I filename
is given.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIname\fP\fB.ys.l\fP  'u
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.yax\fP	grammar for \fByax\fP (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.prio\fP	priorities specification (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.tdef\fP	source for \fBtdef\fP (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.ys.l\fP	listing (output)
.br
\fB/tmp/sx*\fP	scratch files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
yax(1), prio(1), tdef(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Messages are issued for each situation where the user will have to
look to the generated grammar\|;
error diagnostics are gathered in
the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.

