.\" @(#)paradis.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 2 Septembre 1987
.TH PARADIS 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
paradis \- process syntactic grammars with pretty printer specification.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B paradis
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-sc\fP ] [ \fB\-nsc\fP ]
[ \fB\-ls\fP ] [ \fB\-nls\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.8i
[ \fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I paradis
processes the syntactic and pretty printer specification parts of a language,
described for the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system, into a file which will be
used by other
.B SYNTAX
modules.
.I paradis
checks that the grammar is proper and translates the pretty printer
specification into tables.
.LP
Each file named
.I filename
contains the (syntactic and semantic) description of a given language.
A
.I filename
may be of the form
[\|\fIpath/\fP\|]\|\fIname\fP.\fBparadis\fP
where
.I name
is the name of the described language.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I paradis
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     paradis [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     paradis -v -sc -ls -rhs 10 [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying crypting information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fP, \fB\-source\fP
Produce a file named
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP,
containing a line and production numbered source listing together with
possible error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nsc\fP, \fB\-nosource\fP
Suppress the source listing\|; implies
.IR \-nolist .
.TP
\fB\-ls\fP, \fB\-list\fP
Add to the listing file a
.B cross reference
table of the grammar symbols,
the
.B follow
matrix of terminal symbols and the
.B generated code
corresponding to the pretty printer specification\|;
implies
.IR \-source .
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nls\fP, \fB\-nolist\fP
Suppress the cross reference table, the follow matrix and the
.B generated code
corresponding to the pretty printer specification\|.
.TP
\fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-max_right_hand_side\fP \fInnn\fP
Issue a warning message each time the length of the right hand side of a
production exceeds
.I nnn
symbols.
The default value of
.I nnn
is 10.
.TP
\fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-language_name\fP \fIname\fP
Force the
.I name
of the language to process.
The
.B \-ln
option is mandatory if no
.I filename
is given.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP  'u
\fIname\fP\fB.bt\fP	internal grammar form (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.ppt\fP	internal pretty printer tables (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP	listing (output)
.br
\fB/tmp/sx*\fP	scratch files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bnf(1), semact(1), semat(1), semc(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the grammar is not proper or when the specification of the pretty printer
is incorrect, error messages are issued and error diagnostics are gathered in
the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.

