.\" @(#)semat.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 19 juin 1990
.TH SEMAT 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
semat \- process syntactic grammars with semantics described by abstract tree.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B semat
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-sc\fP ] [ \fB\-nsc\fP ]
[ \fB\-ls\fP ] [ \fB\-nls\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.6i
[ \fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-c\fP ]
[ \fB\-ll\fP \fInnn\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.6i
[ \fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I semat
processes the syntactic part of a language, described for the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system with semantics described by abstract tree.
.I semat
checks that the grammar is proper and translates the abstract tree
specification into tables which will be
used by other
.B SYNTAX
modules,
and into a semantic pass program skeleton, written in \fIC\fP, which must be
completed with the user's attributes computations.
.LP
Each file named
.I filename
contains the (syntactic and semantic) description of a given language.
A
.I filename
may be of the form
[\|\fIpath/\fP\|]\|\fIname\fP.\fBat\fP
where
.I name
is the name of the described language.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read.
.LP
The semantic pass program skeleton is written on the standard output.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I semat
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     semat [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     semat -v -sc -ls -rhs 10 -ll 128 [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fP, \fB\-source\fP
Produce a file named
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP,
containing a line and production numbered source listing together with
possible error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nsc\fP, \fB\-nosource\fP
Suppress the source listing\|; implies
.IR \-nolist .
.TP
\fB\-ls\fP, \fB\-list\fP
Add to the listing file a
.B cross reference
table of the grammar symbols,
the
.B follow
matrix of terminal symbols and a table which gives for each production the
name of the abstract tree node and the names of its sons\|;
implies
.IR \-source .
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nls\fP, \fB\-nolist\fP
Suppress the cross reference table, the follow matrix and the printing of the
nodes hierarchy.
.TP
\fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-max_right_hand_side\fP \fInnn\fP
Issue a warning message each time the length of the right hand side of a
production exceeds
.I nnn
symbols. The default value of
.I nnn
is 10.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP
Indicate that the semantic pass program skeleton is written in \fIC\fP.
(Default) Formerly, the language \fIPascal\fP was also supported, but this 
is no longer the case.
.TP
\fB\-ll\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-max_line_length\fP \fInnn\fP
Try to keep the comments generated in the semantic pass program skeleton
into lines whose length does not exceed 
.I nnn
columns. The default value of
.I nnn
is 128.
.TP
\fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-language_name\fP \fIname\fP
Force the
.I name
of the language to process.
The
.B \-ln
option is mandatory if no
.I filename
is given.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP  'u
\fIname\fP\fB.at\fP	grammar and abstract tree specification (input)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bt\fP	internal grammar form (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.att\fP	internal abstract tree tables (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP	listing (output)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bnf(1), semact(1), paradis(1), semc(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the grammar is not proper or when the specification of the abstract tree
is incorrect, an error message is issued and error diagnostics are gathered in
the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.

