.\" @(#)pprecor.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 2 Septembre 1987
.TH PPRECOR 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
pprecor \- pretty printer for 
.I recor
programs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pprecor
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-kwuc\fP ] [ \fB\-kwlc\fP ]
[ \fB\-kwci\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.8i
[ \fB\-kwdk\fP ] [ \fB-nkwdk\fP ]
[ \fB\-ll\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-tabs\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.8i
[ \fB-notabs\fP ]
[ \fB\-every\fP \fInnn\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pprecor
checks the syntax and pretty prints recor(1) descriptions.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read and the pretty printed
program is written on the standard output.
.LP
For each
.I filename
argument the corresponding pretty printed program is written on the same
.I filename
if no error occurs.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     pprecor [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     pprecor -v -kwci -ll 80 -tabs -every 8 [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-kwuc\fP, \fB\-keywords_in_upper_case\fP
Pretty print recor keywords in upper case letters\|; excludes -kwlc and -kwci.
.TP
\fB\-kwlc\fP, \fB\-keywords_in_lower_case\fP
Pretty print recor keywords in lower case letters\|; excludes -kwuc and -kwci.
.TP
\fB\-kwci\fP, \fB\-keywords_capitalised_initial\fP
Pretty print recor keywords with each leading letter capitalised and the others
written in lower case\|; excludes -kwuc and -kwlc.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-kwdk\fP, \fB\-keywords_in_dark\fP
Attempt to make recor keywords look darker than rest of text
when displayed on a printer, by overstriking each letter
twice (using backspaces).
.TP
\fB\-nkwdk\fP, \fB\-nokeywords_in_dark\fP
Do not pretty print recor keywords in bold letters.
.TP
\fB\-ll\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-line_length\fP \fInnn\fP
Force the maximum length of an output line to be
.IR nnn.
(Default
.I nnn
= 80).
.TP
\fB\-tabs\fP
Replace sequences of spaces by tabulation characters wherever possible.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-notabs\fP
Do not use tabulation characters.
.TP
\fB\-every\fP \fInnn\fP
Force the number of columns between two tabulation positions to be
.I nnn.
(Default
.I nnn
= 8).
.SH FILES
pprecor*	scratch file (output)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
recor(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the input program is (syntactically) incorrect error messages are issued
and the output is done on a new file in the current directory.
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.
.SH BUGS
See sxppp(3).
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" version-control: yes
.\" End:
