.\" @(#)semact.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 2 Septembre 1987
.TH SEMACT 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
semact \- process syntactic grammars with semantics described by actions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B semact
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-sc\fP ] [ \fB\-nsc\fP ]
[ \fB\-ls\fP ] [ \fB\-nls\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.7i
[ \fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I semact
processes the syntactic part of a language described for the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system with semantics described by actions into a file which will be used
by other
.B SYNTAX
modules.
.I semact
checks that the grammar is proper and records, for each grammar rule, the
action number specified in the source file.
.LP
Each file named
.I filename
contains the (syntactic and semantic) description of a given language.
A
.I filename
may be of the form
[\|\fIpath/\fP\|]\|\fIname\fP.\fBbnf\fP
where
.I name
is the name of the described language.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I semact
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     semact [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     semact -v -sc -ls -rhs 10 [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fP, \fB\-source\fP
Produce a file named
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP,
containing a line and production numbered source listing together with
possible error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nsc\fP, \fB\-nosource\fP
Suppress the source listing\|; implies
.IR \-nolist .
.TP
\fB\-ls\fP, \fB\-list\fP
Add to the listing file a
.B cross reference
table of the grammar symbols,
the
.B follow
matrix of terminal symbols and a table of non null
.B actions
\|; implies
.IR \-source .
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nls\fP, \fB\-nolist\fP
Suppress the cross reference table, the follow matrix and the action table.
.TP
\fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-max_right_hand_side\fP \fInnn\fP
Issue a warning message each time the length of the right hand side of a
production exceeds
.I nnn
symbols.
The default value of
.I nnn
is 10.
.TP
\fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-language_name\fP \fIname\fP
Force the
.I name
of the language to process.
The
.B \-ln
option is mandatory if no
.I filename
is given.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP  'u
\fIname\fP\fB.bt\fP	internal grammar form (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP	listing (output)
.br
\fB/tmp/sx*\fP	scratch files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bnf(1), semat(1), paradis(1), tabc(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the grammar is not proper or when the specification of an action is
incorrect, an error message is issued and error diagnostics are gathered in
the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" version-control: yes
.\" End:
