.\" @(#)csynt.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 16 Decembre 1988
.TH CSYNT 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
csynt \- LALR\|(1) constructor and optimiser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.in +\w'\fBcsynt\fP 'u
.ti -\w'\fBcsynt\fP 'u
.B csynt
[\|\fB\-v\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nv\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-fc\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nfc\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-a\fP\|] [\|\fB\-na\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-luc\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nluc\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-lsc\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nlsc\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-lc\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nlc\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-p\fP\|] [\|\fB\-np\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-lr1\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nlr1\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-ab\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nab\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-fe\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nfe\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-ll\fP\|] [\|\fB\-nll\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-tspe\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-pspe\fP\|]
[\|\fB\-nspe\fP\|] .\|.\|.
\fIlanguage\fP .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each
.I language
argument,
.I csynt
builds an optimised LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) (see the \fB\-lr1\fP option) push-down automaton.
.TP
The LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts (if any) are solved in the following way:
- if there exists disambiguating rules (specified via \fBprio\fP(1)) and if
they are valid for the current conflict, they are used\|;
.br
- else the built-in disambiguating rules are used.
.br
.LP
A single parsing action (shift or reduce) is chosen anyway, and the resulting
automaton is deterministic.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I csynt
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR language
names.
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     csynt language\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     csynt \-v \-fc \-nlr1 \-na \-lsc \-nab \-nfe \-np 
language\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-fc\fP, \fB\-force\fP
Force the optimisation phase, even when LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts have been
solved using system rules.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nfc\fP, \fB\-noforce\fP
Stop the execution before the optimisation phase when LALR\|(1) or
LR\|(1) conflicts have
been solved using system rules: the push-down automaton is not produced.
.TP
\fB\-lr1\fP
.br
If the grammar is not LALR\|(1), determine for each conflictual state whether this conflict could be
resolved by a LR\|(1) constructor; if so, the conflictual path is
split and we obtain a (partial) conflict-free non canonical LR\|(1) automaton.
.TP
\fB\-nlr1\fP, \fB\-nolr1\fP
.br
Do not perform the non canonical LR\|(1) automaton construction. (Default)
.TP
\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-automaton\fP
.br
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP, the 
LR\|(0) automaton and the LALR\|(1) look ahead sets
of the reduce items involved in non-LR\|(0) states.
If the \fB\-lr1\fP option is set, the resulting non canonical LR\|(1)
automaton is printed. 
.TP
\fB\-na\fP, \fB\-noautomaton\fP
Do not print the resulting automaton. (Default)
.TP
\fB\-luc\fP, \fB\-list_user_conflicts\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP,
the LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts which have been solved using the user's
disambiguating rules given via a \fBprio\fP(1) specification.
.TP
\fB\-nluc\fP, \fB\-nolist_user_conflicts\fP
Suppress the report of LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts solved using the user's
disambiguating rules. (Default)
.TP
\fB\-lsc\fP, \fB\-list_system_conflicts\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP,
the LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts which have been solved using the system
disambiguating rules.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nlsc\fP, \fB\-nolist_system_conflicts\fP
Suppress the report of LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts solved using the system
disambiguating rules.
.TP
\fB\-lc\fP, \fB\-list_conflicts\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP,
all the LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts.
.TP
\fB\-nlc\fP, \fB\-nolist_conflicts\fP
Suppress the report of LALR\|(1) or LR\|(1) conflicts.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-path\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP,
for each state \fIs\fP in which a conflict is detected, a sample path
through the automaton from the initial state until \fIs\fP.
Also print a rightmost derivation showing the propagation of the
offending terminal from the point where an occurrence is spontaneously
generated, until the conflictual state.
If the conflict is also an LR\|(1) conflict, a message is
printed in terms of the theoretical LR\|(1) definition.
Furthermore, some case of ambiguity are detected, and the
corresponding message shows two different rightmost derivations
leading to the same sentential form.
.TP
\fB\-np\fP, \fB\-nopath\fP
Suppress the corresponding report.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-ab\fP, \fB\-abstract\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.op.l\fP,
statistics about the optimisation phase.
.TP
\fB\-nab\fP, \fB\-noabstract\fP
Suppress the corresponding report.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-fe\fP, \fB\-floyd_evans\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.op.l\fP,
the optimised push-down automaton coded with Floyd-Evans
Productions\|; implies \fB\-ab\fP.
.TP
\fB\-nfe\fP, \fB\-nofloyd_evans\fP
Suppress the Floyd_Evans Productions listing.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-ll\fP, \fB\-long_listing\fP
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP,
the non optimised push-down automaton coded with Floyd-Evans
Productions.
Add to the listing file, named
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.op.l\fP,
the tables coding the optimised push-down automaton\|; implies \fB\-ab\fPb.
This option is mainly used for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB\-nll\fP, \fB\-nolong_listing\fP
Suppress the previous listings.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-pspe\fP, \fB\-partial_single_productions_elimination\fP
Perform only a partial elimination of single productions\|;
implies options \fB\-tspe\fP and \fB\-nspe\fP are reset.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-tspe\fP, \fB\-total_single_productions_elimination\fP
Perform a total elimination of single productions\|;
implies options \fB\-pspe\fP and \fB\-nspe\fP are reset.
May be used when analysis speed is at a premium.
.TP
\fB\-nspe\fP, \fB\-no_single_productions_elimination\fP
Do not perform any elimination of single productions\|;
implies options \fB\-pspe\fP and \fB\-tspe\fP are reset.
Mainly used for measuring purposes.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIlanguage\fP\fB.op.l\fP  'u
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.bt\fP	internal grammar form (input)
.br
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.dt\fP	user's disambiguating table rules (input)
.br
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.pt\fP	parser tables (output)
.br
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.la.l\fP	LALR\|(1) constructor listing (output)
.br
\fIlanguage\fP\fB.op.l\fP	optimisation results listing (output)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bnf(1), semact(1), semat(1), paradis(1), semc(1), prio(1), tables_c(1) and
the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics are intended to be self-explanatory to a user familiar
with LR theory.
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.

