.\" @(#)tables_c.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 31 aout 2024
.TH TABLES_C 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
tables_c \- terminal processor of SYNTAX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tables_c
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-name\fP \fItables_name\fP ]
[ \fIlanguage_name\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tables_c
is the finalization processor of the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system. It must be invoked after the other processors of \fBSYNTAX\fP:
.BR bnf(1),
.BR lecl(1),
.BR semact(1),
.BR semat(1),
.BR semc(1),
.BR paradis(1),
etc. have been invoked for a given language \fIlangage_name\fP.
.LP
.I tables_c
reads the various files (\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.bt\fP,
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.pt\fP, \fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.rt\fP,
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.st\fP, etc.) produced by these various
processors and gathers their contents in a unique data structure
of type \fISXTABLES\fP.
.LP
This data structure is described by a fragment of C code, which
.I tables_c
emits on its standard output. This fragment of C code should be stored in a
file (preferably named \fIlanguage_name\fP\fB_t.c\fP), which should then be compiled 
and linked with the SYNTAX libraries and the other C files written by the
user for processing files written in the language \fIlanguage_name\fP.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I tables_c
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filename .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     tables_c [filename]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     tables_c -v [filename]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-name\fP \fItables_name\fP
In the generated C code, the data structure is named "\fItables_name\fP",
instead of "sxtables", which is the default name when option \fB-name\fP
is not given on the command line.

.SH FILES
.ta \w'(standard output) 'u
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.att\fP	data file (input)
.br
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.bt\fP	data file (input)
.br
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.pt\fP	data file (input)
.br
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.ppt\fP	data file (input)
.br
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.rt\fP	data file (input)
.br
\fIlanguage_name\fP\fB.st\fP	data file (input)
.br
\fI(standard ouput)\fP	generated C code, usually redirected and stored in file \fIlanguage_name\fP\fB_t.c\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bnf(1), lecl(1), semact(1), semat(1), paradis(1), semc(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the grammar is not proper, an error message is issued and error
diagnostics are gathered in the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.

