.\" @(#)pptdef.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 19 Juin 1990
.TH PPTDEF 1 "SYNTAX\[rg]"
.SH NAME
pptdef \- pretty printer for 
.I tdef
programs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pptdef
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-ll\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-tabs\fP ] [ \fB-notabs\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.7i
[ \fB\-every\fP \fInnn\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pptdef
checks the syntax and pretty prints tdef(1) descriptions.
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read and the pretty printed
program is written on the standard output.
.LP
For each
.I filename
argument the corresponding pretty printed program is written on the same
.IR filename.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .

Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     pptdef [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     pptdef -v -ll 80 -tabs -every 8 [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-ll\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-line_length\fP \fInnn\fP
Force the maximum length of an output line to be
.IR nnn.
(Default
.I nnn
= 80).
.TP
\fB\-tabs\fP
Replace sequences of spaces by tabulation characters wherever possible
outside strings,comments and error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-notabs\fP
Do not use tabulation characters.
.TP
\fB\-every\fP \fInnn\fP
Force the number of columns between two tabulation positions to be
.IR nnn.
(Default
.I nnn
= 8).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tdef(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH FILES
/tmp/pptdef*	temporary output file
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the input program is (syntactically) incorrect error messages are issued
and the output is done on a new file in the current directory.
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.
.SH BUGS
See sxppp(3).
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" version-control: yes
.\" End:
