.\" @(#)bnf.1	- SYNTAX [unix] - 2 Septembre 1987
.TH BNF 1 "SYNTAX\*R"
.SH NAME
bnf \- process syntactic grammars, ignoring semantics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bnf
[ \fB\-v\fP ] [ \fB\-nv\fP ]
[ \fB\-sc\fP ] [ \fB\-nsc\fP ]
[ \fB\-ls\fP ] [ \fB\-nls\fP ]
.if n .ti +0.4i
[ \fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP ]
[ \fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP ] .\|.\|.
[ \fIfilenames\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I bnf
processes the syntactic part of a language, described for the
\fBSYNTAX\fP\*R
system (the semantic description is skipped), into a file which will be used
by other
.B SYNTAX
modules.
.I bnf
checks that the grammar is proper.
.LP
Each file named
.I filename
contains the (syntactic and semantic) description of a given language.
A
.I filename
is of the form
[\|\fIpath/\fP\|]\|\fIname\fP\|[\|\fI.suffixes\fP\|]
where
.I name
is the name of the described language and
.I suffixes
is the kind of semantics used to describe the language.
Traditionnally, if the semantics is described by
.B actions
or if there is no semantics
.IR suffixes = 
.BR bnf ,
if the semantics is described by
.B "abstract tree"
.IR suffixes =
.BR at ,
if the semantics is described by
.B "synthesised attributes"
.IR suffixes =
.BR tabc ,
and for a 
.B pretty-printer
.IR suffixes =
.BR paradis .
.LP
If no
.I filenames
argument is present, the standard input is read.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.I bnf
prints a short synopsis of its usage and exits with a non null status code.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order as long as they appear
.B before
the
.IR filenames .
Only the
.B last
occurrence of a given option is taken into account.
.br
Default options are such that the command
.br
\fB     bnf [filenames]\fP
.br
is equivalent to
.br
\fB     bnf -v -sc -ls -rhs 10 [filenames]\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-verbose\fP
Animate the user's screen by displaying cryptic information about what is
going on.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nv\fP, \fB\-noverbose\fP
Execute silently.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fP, \fB\-source\fP
Produce a file named
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP,
containing a line and production numbered source listing together with
possible error messages.
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nsc\fP, \fB\-nosource\fP
Suppress the source listing\|; implies
.IR \-nolist .
.TP
\fB\-ls\fP, \fB\-list\fP
Add to the listing file a
.B cross reference
table of the grammar symbols and
the
.B follow
matrix of terminal symbols\|;
implies
.IR \-source .
(Default)
.TP
\fB\-nls\fP, \fB\-nolist\fP
Suppress the cross reference table and the follow matrix.
.TP
\fB\-rhs\fP \fInnn\fP, \fB-max_right_hand_side\fP \fInnn\fP
Issue a warning message each time the length of the right hand side of a
production exceeds
.I nnn
symbols.
The default value of
.I nnn
is 10.
.TP
\fB\-ln\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-language_name\fP \fIname\fP
Force the
.I name
of the language to process.
The
.B \-ln
option is mandatory if no
.I filename
is given.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP  'u
\fIname\fP\fB.bt\fP	internal grammar form (output)
.br
\fIname\fP\fB.bn.l\fP	listing (output)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
semact(1), semat(1), paradis(1), tabc(1) and the
\fB"SYNTAX REFERENCE MANUAL"\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the grammar is not proper, an error message is issued and error
diagnostics are gathered in the listing (if any).
.br
Exit status is 0 if everything is alright, 1 if only warnings are issued, 2
if error messages are issued, 3 for command line syntax errors.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" version-control: yes
.\" End:
